The last thing I want you
to say about prototyping is
building prototypes ready for development.
Coz I see as somebody that has
a background in development
if you go fight back far enough
I I look at some of the stuff
that's handed to developers by
designers and it makes me want to weep.
I feel so sorry for developers
with the appalling stuff that you
guys get given by designers sometimes.
And we end up making life so
much more difficult for
developers, and
it's because a lot of designers don't
understand the basics of
how web pages are built.
So I want to give a little bit of advice
about that, about how you can prepare
your Figma files in a great Way that's
going to help developers a lot.
Again, Steve will go into this more, I'm
sure, in his Figma for Developers course.
But I'm talking more to designers in
this situation that don't use Figma
as well as it should be used for
developers, so I'm advocating for them.
So the first thing is always use
AutoLayout, right, seriously,
guys, that is, AutoLayout is
how websites are built, right.
They're built using the CSS box model,
so they have padding,
they have margin,
they have gaps between them,
they're left aligned, right aligned,
vertical aligned, etc.
So the minute you start dragging elements
around, just dropping them on the screen,
you're instantly breaking the fundamental
way that websites are built.
So in my designs,
if you look at my Figma files,
there is nothing that is not
in auto layout format, right.
And everything is grouped within,
if I have multiple columns,
those multiple columns are an AutoLayout.
And if I have components inside
of one of those columns,
that's all auto layout, etc,
all the way down, right?
Yes?
>> How do you approach the layers naming?
Because I was utterly out as well, a lot.
>> Yeah.
>> But you have to be careful when you're
building a more complex components.
>> Yeah.
>> How do you approach the hierarchy of
the naming?
>> Now that's really interesting
because that is very much personal
preference, right.
And I would suggest you agree something
with your developer over that.
If you don't have regular, if you
don't know the developer like I don't
in most situations because I'm
an outside consultant working with
an in-house development team,
I mark it up as if it's HTML, right.
So my layers, I will call div and
sometimes dot, whatever,
a class name or whatever,
or section, or heading,
I will mark it up like it's HTML because
I like to suck up to developers.
So, but that's how I do it, but
the key is consistency, isn't it?
And not having unnamed layer one, unnamed
layer two, unnamed lead three, etc.
That's the biggest key, I think, but also
having everything in AutoLayout because
AutoLayout doesn't just help the
developer, it will also help you, right.
Because a common scenario is somebody
comes back and says, we want that up
there, now if you haven't used AutoLayout,
you have to shift everything down, right.
Move everything down and move
the element up and rearrange everything.
With AutoLayout, you just drag
it from one place to another and
everything reformats by magic, right.
Also with AutoLayout pay attention,
my cursor won't actually show,
but if you see that
there's three icons there.
There's a down arrow, a right arrow, and a
circular arrow, or a back on itself arrow.
That back on itself arrow is under,
people underestimate and
they don't use it, that's a wrap arrow.
And that will mean that as you
reduce the width of things,
because everything can be fluid,
it will wrap a column underneath itself
just like it would in the browser, right.
And that means that you can create
almost fully responsive websites
within a web apps within Figma.
I say almost, because you can't have
breakpoints in Figma yet, right,
where suddenly everything reformats and
repositions, which is really annoying,
but you take what you can get.
So really, really use AutoLayout,
can't say that strongly enough.
The other little bug bit, I feel like
I'm channeling every developer I've ever
met at this point, but we'll keep going.
Think about your states,
guys coz otherwise developers will
make something up and I swear they
make it up terribly on purpose,
just to punish us for
not thinking about it ourselves.
So, think about hover states,
active states, all of that kind of stuff.
And if you don't know what state you need
then either learn some HTML, or go and
talk to your developer and they'll gladly
tell you what you can do your states.
And, so build those in components And so
that the developer can just go and see,
you can select the element and
on that right-hand side in Figma.
It'll be able to see all
the different states that it's in or
go to the component and see all
the different states that are available.
Really worth the effort, so
I highly recommend that.
This is a bit of an optional one, but
if you can include your animations
to take the time to demonstrate
how your animations would work.
So that the developer can simply
copy what's there, really,
and even generate some pretty ropey code.
But it is a starting point
they can mess around with, and
if you want it to ease in and ease out.
And if you want it over so
many milliseconds,
if you care about that kind of stuff,
take the time to do it.
Otherwise, the developer is gonna
have to make a decision over it, and
they don't mind.
In most cases, it's not that big
a deal that they decide, but
you just won't get to, and
then you don't get to complain afterwards
if it's not exactly like you want,
that's my attitude anyway.
I'm hoping I can hear developers
cheering everywhere my supporting them.
Am I getting this,
am I doing good all right so far?
Yes?
>> So I can
>> Comes in the designer at this point.
>> Yeah [LAUGH] Because where I worked,
we did all that in a spec sheet.
>> Yes, and I understand that, that
that was the old school way of doing it,
and there was a time before these these
applications had all this built in,
where that was the only way
you really could do it.
But these days you it's all built
into Figma so just use it for
crying out loud and and talking of
that there you know there will be
occasions when you can't create
something or you can't get it working.
Right or whatever, and
you get into the point of going, well,
I can't spend too much longer trying to
get this stupid modal to appear, right?
So just put a comment in,
great commenting built into Figma.
So use your comments to explain to your
developer how you want the interface
to behave.
And it's all there, nicely packaged up for
them together And it works a treat.
And they can see exactly the element
that they wanna change, etc.
>> They don't have to go
to two different sorts.
>> Exactly, yeah, it's about being
polite [LAUGH] And handing over
a quality product to the people that
have got to make the thing work.
And there is so much complexity
in development, and there's so
much that they have to do that you
don't wanna put any more on them.
Their developers' jobs are pretty sucky,
in my humble opinion a lot of the time.
They do have the advantage that nobody
ever cares what their code's like.
well, everybody cares what
our design works like, so
they get off light on that at least.
Yes?
One more Two,
I think one thing that I personally
appreciate is having color codes in HSL as
a means of just kind of translating
things more closely to a color wheel.
And I think I learned
that from Sarah Drasner,
who's here last time was just like hex and
RGB are just so intuitive from
>> Right, okay.
>> Okay, colors, but
HSL is nice cuz it just does,
translates better to a color wheel,
it's a lot easier to understand.
>> Yeah, see, I always because I'm old
is always hex values for me, but no,
I see where you're coming from,
makes sense, okay, I can accept that.
I'll add that to the presentation in
future, so let's let's wrap that up then.
So basically when it comes to product
typing, this is going to Schottky.
Prototyping is a powerful tool for
both testing and communication.
You have learned something new today,
I bet you didn't know that coming in.
However, it does the careful planning the
correct choice to the client right kind
of prototype at the right time, and
how much depth to go into your prototype.
If you do need to reach a point of
going I'm overworking this now?
[LAUGH] Let's just move on.
So yeah, and then I want to rattle through
fairly fast testing your prototype.
Obviously I carried carry this cover this
in a lot more detail in the cold side did
on research into testing, but
we will just touch on it here as well.